Lebanon what are her goals on this
Mission well as she herself has said
basically to leave no stone unturned to
ensure that the hostages uh are released
there are at least eight Germans amongst
the 203 hostages being held by Hamas and
she said that she is in Non-Stop
communication with her counterparts
throughout the region and that means in
a number of Arab countries as well to
try to ensure that the hostages are
being treated uh with humanity and also
that they will be released so that's
reason number one reason number two is
to prevent what she referred to in her
stop yesterday in Jordan as a regional
conflagration and there too seeking
contact with leaders across the region
who perhaps also could Prevail upon
Hezbollah the uh Islamic uh militia
based in Lebanon and she plans to go to
Lebanon after Israel today to to Prevail
upon them and their Patron Iran not to
get into the fry and it's quite
interesting to note that although Joe
Biden's talks with the Egyptian and
Jordanian leaders were cancelled the
German leadership also Chancellor
Schultz have very close contact with
Egypt with Jordan with Qatar with many
countries that could exercise perhaps
some influence in stopping this conflict
from widening and Germany historically
has seen that kind of a mediation role
as part of its special duty to Israel
and has in fact participated in
mediating prison mediating prisoner
swaps and the the uh foreign minister
has just announced that she will go on
now to Cairo on Saturday to a special
peace Summit that has been called at
very short notice by Egypt so trying
hard to use those channels to stop a
regional configration and then thirdly
as she has said to show those in Gaza
the civilians that we know of their
suffering and want to help she's
appointed a special Emissary for
humanitarian Aid Germany has announced
it will commit 50 million so all of that
driving her to nonstop shuttle
diplomacy we should mention that that an
Elena barbach was just in the region
last week right she visited Israel then
as as well she's back in Tel Aviv right
now we saw Chancellor Schultz also
visiting uh the region he was uh in both
Israel and in uh he spoke with Jordan's
uh leader he was in in Egypt as well uh
why is analina Bach going back again so
soon well as as I said because she has
said we absolutely must do everything in
our power and with that she means
everything to support Israel Germany has
said always that Israel's existence is
part of Germany's uh State rationale as
it
wereat in Germany meaning a highest
price priority for the country of
Germany and therefore there's no
question that Germany's solidarity is
with Israel and at the same time she is
trying very hard as is the chancellor to
also show compassion for the civilians
in Gaza who are bearing uh terrible a
terrible brunt of the suffering uh there
and as she yesterday said to try to tell
the stories of those suffering on both
sides so she's made it a point to
include in her speeches in Jordan
descriptions of those she's met in
Israel who have lost loved ones or
perhaps have uh members of the family
who've been taken hostage while in some
of the Arab countries in the region she
talks about uh the Israelis uh that
she's met so it's it's a real Endeavor I
think on her part to cultivate a
Humanity that she hopes could perhaps uh
stem some of this suffering so the
foreign minister is showing
understanding empathy expressing empathy
there um it's a symbolic act to go there
again so quickly and to visit all of
these places and talk to them as you
suggested uh but what about Germany
actually playing a role as a possible
mediator you mentioned this uh do you
see a potential for that in this
situation I don't think anybody here
thinks that Germany and anybody in uh in
Berlin in the government will be
thinking that Germany can somehow uh
stop this configration of itself all
alone but there is no question that the
combined efforts that we're seeing
President macron also traveling to a
number of different Arab countries Rishi
sunak going to Saudi Arabia as well as
Israel and the German leaders all of
them trying very very hard to open up
every form of diplomatic communication
available because indeed there is a
danger of a two-front war if Hezbollah
does in fact uh increase its attacks in
the north it's very unclear uh what role
Lebanon and hisbah could play and of
course it all depends very much on Iran
and all of this is about trying to
establish that Coalition of Arab
countries uh that could possibly uh
exercise some influence with his ol
which uh essentially is Iran's um sword
it's uh its means of proxy acting to
inflame this conflict and turn it into
uh a vast Regional war with
International
implications Melinda stay with us uh
we're just waiting for analina Bok the
German foreign minister to begin her
press conference in Tel Aviv uh while
we're waiting for that let's take a a
look at uh at what uh while we're
waiting for that let's take a look at
German Chancellor Olaf Schultz he's been
in Israel and Egypt as I mentioned too
in a push to deescalate tensions in a
speech to Parliament here in Berlin
after returning from that visit the
chancellor said Germany's place is
firmly by Israel's
side family members of hostages abducted
pamas during its terror attack on Israel
guest in the German Parliament listening
to Chancellor Olaf Schultz who was just
returned from the Middle East
Schulz reaffirms his government's
support for Israel and for efforts to
get the hostages free more than 200 are
being held in Gaza among them a number
of German
Nationals an important task for us is
freeing the hostages they must be
released without any
conditions I want to say this very
clearly to those who preach Terror many
of those who were kidnapped were
activists at the Forefront of seeking
peace in the region I learned this from
their friends and families this needs to
be said here too we are working for the
release of the
hostages schz also spoke about the
situation of civilians in the Gaza
Strip they are equally victims and
hostages of Hamas it's using them as
human Shields which is inhumane you
can't Des it any other
way it sees control over them in a coup
they're helpless in the face of the
power and Terror of Hamas that is why it
is very very important to find ways of
providing humanitarian
Aid SCH said that there is now a good
chance that Aid will finally make it
into Gaza soon but an end to the wider
crisis is still nowhere in sight
well while while we're waiting for
German foreign minister Ananda babach to
begin her news conference in Tel Aviv uh
with me in the studio is DW's Melinda
crane our chief political analyst uh
Melinda this is an important time not
just for for what for the leaders in the
Middle East who are dealing with this
conflict but also for mediators for
countries that are aligned with uh
Israel as well Germany is among those
this is an important time for German
leadership absolutely it is and it's
also a challenge for German leadership
as I mentioned uh earlier Israel's
existence is uh absolutely a core core
priority for Germany Germany's
solidarity with Israel is uh based on
the historic tragedy of course of this
country having perpetrated the Holocaust
and therefore having a very special
relationship with Israel and that's been
apparent in some of the very strong
speeches that we have heard from the
German leadership including the foreign
minister we're about to hear her
speaking once again in Israel who has
really declared with passionate intent
intensity this country's support for
Israel and at the same time enormous
concern here in Germany uh which also is
home to many uh Arab and Muslim migrants
about the situation in Gaza about the
suffering of civilians there and
concerned about um trying to Prevail
upon Israel to show some form of
restraint not a word that German leaders
are uh necessarily using in that Clarity
but again and again we're hearing
increasing references now from the
Chancellor from the foreign minister for
Israel to carry out any operations that
it is conducting in Gaza with respect
for international law and international
law does require
proportionality in directing attacks
against per perpetrators military
targets terrorists but not against
civilians in attempting to protect
civilians in the course of military
operations and German leaders are being
careful to mention that obligation but
it's a fine fine line there are a lot of
eggshells upon which To Tread in this
situation and particularly challenging I
think for this country with its special
relationship to Israel yeah it must be
said that both Chancellor Schultz and
foreign minister balk have stressed the
need to respect the the rights of
civilians in Gaza and they've drawn
attention to the humanitarian suffering
that we're witnessing in Gaza since the
blockade essentially uh by Israel so
there's no Aid getting into Gaza it's
very very dependent on that Aid uh
analena babach is is very conscious of
that she announced 50 million euros in
in aid for humanitarian aid for the the
people of the living in the Gaza Strip
uh but I have to we have to ask
ourselves given the current situation is
that money able to do any good yeah you
know also President Biden thought that
he had accomplished essentially The
Establishment now of corridors for that
Aid to go in and yet we're hearing the
Rafa Crossing is still closed those
trucks are still trying to wait there
are many questions apparently about who
inspects the shipments going in because
Israel has said it should not include
even such basic Goods as fuel which by
the way would be badly needed to keep
hospitals in Gaza running and the water
purification plants apparently that's a
critical part too we heard the UN
Secretary General Antonio guish
stressing the need to get the sanitation
system going again the water
purification system because there is no
clean drinking water in Gaza we heard
that also confirmed in an interview I
conducted with a journalist in the Gaza
Strip today the people there are living
in dire conditions indeed it's one of
the stories that analena barbach
mentioned yesterday when she was in
jordan saying that when she hears that a
mother is feeding or giving her children
brackish water in other words salt salty
uh polluted water that it just breaks
her heart and indeed that is the plight
that many many people here are
abundantly aware of so that 50 million
in humanitarian help how can it reach
those who be need it so badly
undoubtedly this will be a key topic
tomorrow at this peace Summit that has
been called by Egypt and certainly
amongst the topics that the German
leadership have been speaking about with
uh with Mr aisi with M with the Egyptian
leadership is the question of how do we
get that Crossing open but it is a
two-way process and there are obstacles
on both sides and I just want to remind
our viewers that uh if you're just
joining us here on DW news we're waiting
for German foreign minister analina
babach to begin a news conference in Tel
Aviv the foreign minister has traveled
there uh for the second time in two
weeks showing her solidarity with Israel
uh stressing Israel's right to defend
itself while also drawing attention to
the need to provide uh relief to the to
the Palestinians who the Palestinian
civilians who are trapped in the Gaza
Strip un under a blockade with Israel
continuing to launch air strikes against
uh Hamas terrorist targets there so as
we're waiting for this conference uh our
chief political analyst Melinda crane is
is in the studio with us Melinda I
wanted to to ask you about again the
foreign ministers trip she's visiting
three countries uh is she's in Israel
right now uh but there's also Jordan and
Lebanon crucially Lebanon where there
could be another front opening up for
Israel in this this war the the militia
Hezbollah uh that are based in in
Lebanon with Iran support they are
considered to be pretty well armed uh
and Israel is is bracing for a possible
attack on its northern northern border
there's great deal of concern also in
the German political establishment that
this war could spread everyone is very
tense about what is going to happen next
we're we're waiting for a ground
offensive a a ground operation that
Israel is expected to carry out in the
Gaza Strip they haven't begun that yet
but they've been massing troops on the
border with their powerful powerful Army
um we're expecting that to be a very
bloody battle indeed indeed and I think
it's it it's fascinating that the
foreign minister does want to go to
Lebanon at this time right before I came
into the studio I checked to see whether
that trip is still on because in fact uh
the German foreign service is warning
Germans to leave Lebanon at this point
so she's uh clearly still intending to
go in the opposite direction the hisbah
have been sending uh Rockets already
across the border but so far U limited
Military targeting Israel responding in
kind so no evidence yet of the kind of
wider attack uh that uh that certainly
many people fear could occur that would
open up a second front for Israel very
problematic at the time when it does
plan to try to uh attack uh or Revenge
uh the attack by Hamas uh and at the
same time concern that should Hezbollah
then uh move toward uh a real uh allout
attack in the north uh of Israel that
Iran gets pulled in as well because of
course hisbah is a proxy for Iran so
that is part of the Frantic diplomacy
that we are seeing the attempt to PR
Prevail upon hisbah interestingly enough
his bu's leader nasrala has not spoken
in the entire 16 days since the attack
occurred this is is interesting if you
compare it to the situation in 2006
where essentially he gave an incendiary
speech and that was the beginning of uh
of a very very uh terrible violence that
hisbah perpetrated so clearly at the
moment hisbah is considering its options
but we've seen the Iranian foreign
minister for example traveling to
Lebanon to say to issue essentially a
very clear warning that Iran and hisbah
are prepared to act and of course we've
also seen tweets by the leadership in
tan saying time is up whatever that's
supposed to mean so rather cryptic an
extremely extremely inflammable
flammable situation here that could
indeed uh turn into a massive conflict
with International implications if we
consider the fact that there are two US
aircraft carriers now also in the region
very very very concerning and therefore
perhaps no wonder that we're seeing this
kind of you know Sleepless uh 247
diplomacy by the foreign minister and by
so many other International leaders
exactly um looking at at Iran and trying
to understand the calculus of Hamas in
launching this horrific attack on Israel
on October 7th which left at least 1,400
uh israelies dead including a number of
foreign Nationals it must be said all
those hostages more than 200 hostages
apparently are being held uh in Hamas
control territory in in the Gaza Strip
probably in tunnels deep underground and
what their fate will be is also hanging
in the balance as well but one has to
ask oneself oneself what what is the
calculus that Hamas had in launching
this attack what is it that they were
hoping to to unleash with that because
it's certainly not going to help the
Palestinian cause in the short or the
medium term and one has to wonder if the
intention was to to provoke Israel
indeed into such a response that it
would unleash something much wider this
is in the back of everyone's Minds it's
a deep concern it's motivating the
shuttle diplomacy that we're seeing this
blurry of diplomacy uh into not just
into Israel but into all neighboring
countries as well uh could that have
been the calculus and how how concerned
should we be that Iran will indeed
respond when in once in Israel begins
its ground offensive in the Gaza STP
well three things uh you know one of the
first things that people looked at after
the Hamas attack was the degree of of
explicit involvement by Iran in this
attack so far we have seen no clear
evidence that Iran in some way
indirectly or directly ordered the
attack that it was uh complicit in this
particular incident there is no doubt at
all whatsoever about it its overall
complicity it has been supplying Hamas
and hisbah of course with weapons it is
essentially Jihad we should also mention
I mean there are other terrist groups
inside precisely so there is no doubt
about Iran's General complicity
nonetheless we have not yet seen
specific evidence that it in any way
ordered this attack or that it told
Hamas now is the time but there is
thinking that for Hamas the timing had
everything to do with the fact that
Israel and Saudi Arabia were just about
to sign another in the agreement a set
of agreements known as the Abraham
Accords those is has have been the uh
agreements by which a variety of Arab
countries have recognized Israel's
existence and thereby established
diplomatic relations with Israel for the
first time that's UAE bahin Qatar and
Saudi Arabia the biggest prize in the
region was about to do the same now that
clearly is not in Iran's interest and
many feel that Hamas may have been
looking to try to stop that and then to
provoke the kind of Palestinian
suffering that indeed would discredit uh
Israel so greatly that they would no
longer be a partner for Saudi Arabia
going forward I've been reading also
that uh Hamas apparently felt that it
had been completely overlooked in any
talks uh with in that in these Abraham
Accords that you're talking about and
that relations between Saudi Arabia and
Hamas are are not uh are not exactly
what Hamas would would perhaps like them
to be anyway um stay with us Melinda
we're going to we're still still waiting
for that press conference to get
underway in Tel Aviv with the German
foreign minister um but first we're
going to look at some other news
uh trying to get queued up here
Palestinian militants in uh we've been
talking about them they will they
continue to fight fire Rockets into Gaza
uh into Israel from Gaza on Thursday now
this happened as Israeli forces struck
Targets in the Gaza Strip throughout the
day including in the south of the
territory where Israel had told gazin to
head for their own safety one explosion
there reportedly killed and and injured
several people including
children a father carrying his child to
the
Grave his was one of three children
among those receiving the final rights
on this Baron Pat of
land prayers are h to the sound of
Israeli aircraft hovering above a
constant menace to the Palestinians
below and a reminder of the air strike
on the town of Kanan yunes that killed
the civilians being buried
here hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians have fled the northern part
of the Gaza Strip after Israel told them
to leave for the
South running out of food and desperate
for shelter they have found no reprieve
from Israel's Relentless bombing
campaign
[Music]
we came from gasa City they told us to
come to the South so we came to the
South we found that the strikes
intensified in the South we stayed in a
house in front of us there were strikes
behind us strikes there's no safety
there's nowhere safe in gasa you have to
be ready to die and to just stay in your
house Israel vows to continue you
targeting Hamas all over Gaza when there
is a threat originating
or being conducted against Israel from
the south and we will strike
absolutely and it will soon move its
powerful Army into the strip Israel's
defense minister told troops massing on
its
border I promise you that whoever sees
gasa now from afar will'll see it from
the inside good
luck an Israeli ground operation will
likely focus on the north at least in
the initial
stages with hus expected to put up
Fierce resistance the batt confines of
Southern Gaza may still prove a
sanctuary of
sorts now Haim baloa is a journalist who
is now in Gaza earlier I asked him about
the humanitarian situation
there the Mediterranean situation is
getting hard and harsh um no electricity
no no power at all um no drinking water
uh no internet um limited access to food
um no borders no trucks coming in uh
people are lying on vories in grocery
shops and restaurants people can afford
some stuff but still uh others are not
um some people are staying in um at
schools and they are providing very
limited amount of food and ACC in to the
limited amount that they have according
to their
official um uh all the services and
infrastructure are down in in NAA barely
we are connected on the phone it come it
comes and goes no internet people are
not
communicating um as regular um people
don't know here and the officials like
how long that SCA can survive with the
current
situation their efforts to resume Aid
deliveries to Gaza across the border
with Egypt are Palestinians in Gaza
expecting those Aid deliveries to resume
to actually reach
them well this is a question
that um how and when this Aid will come
um there are a lot of reports that it
would come today but seems like up to
now nothing came in into Gaza um with
the the they are talking about 20 trucks
which is very limited and this would be
through the UN agencies
particularly uh on and maybe R
presentent we don't know yet about the
mechanism and uh I don't know how how
this would be distributed to Ordinary
People the other people in the South or
only for those refugees are staying at
the ownest C is there any place in Gaza
where the people there can can flee to
and be
safe actually not I'm I'm displaced uh
myself with my family for the third time
in this war um many people left their
places in North and and Gaza City to the
South but you know overnight here I'm in
the central Goa thre and I still hear
bombardments and air strikes there were
many reports about air strikes in ranun
which is in the South many buildings
were destroyed there are many people
killed in different air strikes but we
can we have to say that it's more
intense in Gaza and North here is is
continued but still there are many
people killed by or dued to the a
strikes hen thank you very much for your
reporting that was journalist hen Balia
speaking to us from Gaza
thank
you well earlier I spoke with our
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
I asked her why Israel has not yet
launched its expected ground operation
in
Gaza well I think there are certainly uh
strategic considerations by the Israeli
Army there one still although it is
expected have an element of surprise um
we heard now the defense minister saying
and some officials Army officials saying
that you know saying to the Troops you
will see Gaza from the inside soon now
um this could be an indication that this
will actually happen uh soon the ground
Invasion but we don't know for sure uh
when they will go in but there might be
also other considerations here we're
hearing a lot from the Israeli military
correspondence here that there is a
concern uh in the north with the uh
border Israel's border with leanon that
Hezbollah the Shiite libanese group uh
militant group Hezbollah could enter the
war uh we um because they have said if a
ground Invasion will happen they might
do so and there's a lot of concern so it
could also be related to that the
preparations are ongoing and we're
hearing this morning there has been
another evacuation order of a bigger
town in the north koni that the people
there should actually evacuate uh to
places further south in
Israel there's also a lot of concern
about the hostages being held by Hamas
Tanya is there any word on their face
no we don't know much about uh their
location um what what is happening to
them uh but there has been a video that
has been released uh by uh the Hamas
militant Wing uh last week showing one
of the hostages there in in in a you
know in a different environment there
she was talking to her families to her
family uh so this is one of the videos
that has been released the Israeli
government said uh you might expect more
of this but many people still don't know
I mean
203 uh people are confirmed to have been
taken hostages now by the military here
the Israeli military but some people
still don't know what happened to their
families because some are still the
identification Pro identification
process of those who were killed in the
initial attacks uh two weeks ago is
still
ongoing Tanya thank you DW's Tanya
Kramer there in
Jerusalem United Nations Secretary
General Antonio gues is on his way to
the Rafa border crossing between Egypt
and the Gaza Strip that's where a
limited number of trucks are expected to
deliver humanitarian Aid into Gaza in
the coming hours it's hoped following a
plan announced by the US President Joe
Biden well Gaza is currently
experiencing severe shortages of fuel
food and medicines Israel launched air
strikes of course in Gaza and sealed the
territory off from supplies after Hamas
militants entered Israel almost 2 weeks
ago and killed at least 1,400
people the UN Chief says more than 2
million people in Gaza are at risk of
dehydration and waterborne
diseases civilians in Gaza desperately
need core services and supplies and for
that we need rapid unimpeded
humanitarian
access we need food water medicine and
Fel now we need it at scale and we need
it to be
sustained earlier I spoke with kareim
elari a journalist who is in Egypt's
capital Cairo I asked him what Egyptian
authorities are saying about when a
deliveries to Gaza might
resume well the talk is that it is set
for today that also in the presence of
the UN General Secretary gutiz um
officially it's not open yet because uh
there is extensive uh repair work uh
especially on the Palestinian side
because this area since the war was
since the war broke out was bombed four
times in its vicinity and the the the
the street to the border crossing has
extensive Dage was I hear that until now
there's also until this moment a
struggle in the background between the
US Israel and Egypt about how much eight
will be allowed in until now it's
supposed to be only 20 trucks that can
go to specific locations once the border
is open uh but uh of course on the
Egyptian side there are many many more
trucks lined up talk is about that
there's waiting eight of 3,000 tons
right now on the other side talk for
sure will be also about the foreign
Nationals and possibilities for them to
leave the Gaza Strip via uh this Rafa
border crossing Egypt since days tries
to link the two things they're saying
like they can go out only if eight comes
comes in and that is all still probably
under discussion until now it's not sure
if and when this Crossing is really
opening today no we're talking about
humanitarian aid for people who are
living under extremely difficult
conditions and civilians who are are
facing serious uh health issues among
other things are hungry uh why has it
been so difficult kareim to get that Aid
flowing back into
Gaza well it is has to be done in
coordination between Egypt Hamas Israel
and the un uh it seems to be very very
difficult from the Egyptian side they
are ready to H bring the aid in the big
topic for the Egyptian side is uh about
crossing the border opening the border
crossing and for the Palestinians to
leave from there there's a big fear in
Egypt about a Palestinian Exodus from
Gaza Egyptian president CCE just said
that the current war was not just aimed
at fighting Hamas but also an attempt to
push civilian inhabitants to migrate to
Egypt uh that's is the big fear you have
to understand there is a Palestinian and
Arab trauma about a nakba the fear that
Palestinians once again will be
forcefully displayed displaced until now
in their history whenever they escaped
to another country they were never
allowed back and uh I think that's is
really the big issue this is also the
issue in Jordan This is the issue in
Egypt right now why they are so
reluctant that the Palestinians can come
from the Gaza Strip Kareem thank you
very much for now that was journalist
kareim El gawari reporting from Egypt's
capital
Kira you are watching DW news uh we're
just waiting for a news conference to
begin in Tel Aviv with the German
foreign minister analena Bok we're
looking at live pictures now from the V
men where that news conference is
expected to take place we know that
analina Bach is there and the press
conference was supposed to be getting
underway a short while ago we are
waiting on it uh we will we do plan to
bring that to you live when the German
foreign minister speaks it's her second
trip to the region in two weeks there's
been a flurry of diplomacy uh trying to
stop this war between Hamas and Israel
from spreading into a broader region
conflict cyber Security Experts are
warning that International hackers are
increasingly targeting Israeli websites
and infrastructure in one case the
Jerusalem Post news site says it was
forced offline several times in recent
days groups based in Gaza Iran and
Russia are among those Under
Suspicion in cyber War there are no
clear front lines even for experts it's
difficult to determine which groups are
behind recent cyber attacks on Israeli
websites I think it's very important to
be cautious of anything that you see um
misinformation and disinformation are
going to be very prevalent uh throughout
all of this uh groups may claim things
that uh weren't necessarily attributed
by them or sorry done by them there have
been reports about misinformation being
spread via an Israeli rocket warning app
the hacker group Anon ghost claims to
have managed to insert fake
notifications on the app with phrases
such as death to Israel and the nuclear
bomb is coming the aim of these kinds of
attacks appears to be creating panic and
confusion but there are also attempts to
cut off civilians from potentially
crucial information more than 100
Israeli websites have been downed by
distributed denial of service or dos
attacks hackers flood websites with
requests until their servers collapse
one prominent example the Jerusalem Post
one of Israel's most read newspapers was
downed for more than 24 hours the Hecker
Collective Anonymous sedan claims to be
responsible for this attack they
describe themselves as an anti vestern
pro-islam Hecker Collective but this
claim is doubted by experts it's also
doubtful if they are cooperating with
Hamas I think we do need to be careful
of saying directly that they have
coordinated with Hamas um we don't know
that we don't have that uh Insight yet
um however these cyber attacks are
working to their advantage to the
psychological aspect of um taking down
the systems of Israel um perhaps uh
meddling with the alerting systems uh
and allowing Rockets to get through
another Hecker Collective pro-russian
Kil net has even threatened to Target
all Israeli government systems with
distributed denial of service attacks a
more concerning hacking strategy is
trying to get access to it systems of
critical infrastructure a Microsoft
report said that in early 2023 hackers
used f LinkedIn profiles to POS as
software developers they try to
manipulate employees into installing
malware it's not clear if these attacks
were successful experts fear that
hackers could potentially use installed
back doors to destroy critical
infrastructure in the instances of
malware what we've seen a lot in the
Ukraine is wipers being used to wipe
systems uh wherein they will uh Target a
power station perhaps and install wipers
uh to shut down the systems there
and I've seen recently coming out from
Ukraine uh that that actually has more
impact than a bombing because that can
shut down a whole area rather than a
bombing on the system which would just
shut down that one power station in case
hackers get access to critical
infrastructure via malware the
consequences can be devastating with
hackers adding more complexity to an
already extreme situation citizens are
likely to be the main
victims we're just waiting for a press
conference to get underway German
foreign minister analina Bach is in Tel
Aviv holding talks with the Israeli
leadership she's due to speak soon we're
looking now at live pictures from the
venue where that news conference is
expected to take place uh we're going to
be bringing you that that uh address
live meanwhile Israel says more than 200
people were taken by taken hostage by
Hamas during the terror attacks earlier
this month they include the elderly the
disabled and children hostages captured
in southern Israel and taken to Gaza are
likely to be used as a bargaining tool
their distraught families are urging the
Israeli government to prioritize their
safe
return on a wall outside the Israeli
defense Ministry in Tel Aviv and on
walls across Israel the images of those
taken and
missing the Israeli government must
Focus first of all on doing whatever is
necessary in order to release the
hijacked
people in the October 7th attack Hamas
terrorists killed
indiscriminately and they kidnapped
civilians Soldiers the elderly disabled
and children so many
children now the hostages are somewhere
in the Gaza Strip or under it in the
untold hundreds of kilometers of tunnels
Hamas has
built now there'll be lots of effort put
into
coordinating identifying locating where
the hostages are being kept as much as
possible and of course in the background
there's talk of potentially hostage
rescue attempts but these are very very
uh dangerous options with not always a
guaranteed chance of
success what Hamas recognizes Scott
Walker says is that Israel has
consistently prioritized the safe return
of their
citizens
Shalom case in point the 19-year-old
Israeli soldier held by Hamas for 5
years Israel got him back by giving up
more than a thousand Palestinian
prisoners to Hamas they always want to
take captives they know what captives
can do one Israeli soldier gilad Shalit
and that's the price that Israel is
willing to pay the hostages ruthlessly
taken on October 7th and likely guarded
now by some of the Hamas kidnappers face
a lengthy captivity and indeed the
threat of death from the
captors the families of those hostages
are shaken and Afraid desperate for any
word and hopeful that the images of
their sisters brothers parents
grandparents remain in the Forefront of
Israel's moves against
Hamas if you're just joining us here on
DW news we're waiting for a news
conference to be begin in Tel Aviv
German foreign minister anel babach is
there holding talks with the Israeli
leadership uh she's expected to begin
speaking to the media soon we're looking
at live pictures from the venue as we
wait for that news conference to get
underway we'll be bringing you full
coverage of what she has to say
the meanwhile of course everyone is n
nous about when Israel might launch its
ground offensive in Gaza uh when its
forces do that they will likely have to
deal with a formidable network of
tunnels under the territory the network
is reportedly used by militant islamist
Hamas and other jihadist organizations
dozens or perhaps even hundreds of
kilometers long the tunnels are known as
the Gaza Metro let's take a closer
look one of many Israeli air strikes on
Gaza this one targeting gaza's tunnel
Network according to the Israel Defense
Forces or
IDF destroying the tunnels used by the
militant islamist group Hamas has long
been a priority for Israel's
military the network runs underneath
Gaza connecting its cities running to
the border with Israel and also
connecting the strip with Egypt the
tunnels let militants store weapons
launch attacks and are believed to
contain Hamas command centers gaza's
tunnels are also lifelines to the
outside world passageways for importing
essential Goods as well as Weapons Under
a long-standing Israel blockade this
animated video released by Israel shows
what they supposedly look like inside
militant islamist Hamas has been
developing the tunnel Network since they
came to power in 2007 recently himos
claimed the tunnel network is 500 km
long Hamas and other jihadist groups use
tunnel exits basically holes in the
ground to launch rocket attacks on
Israel the launchers are then brought
back underground that makes them nearly
impossible for Israel to see or
Target Israel has tried bombarding the
tunnels in 2014 in 2017 and 2021 to
destroy the network without
success but with significant civilian
casualties the tunnel network is
reportedly woven underneath marketplaces
apartment blocks and
hospitals
US President Joe Biden has urged
Americans to support tens of billions of
dollars in funding for Israel and
Ukraine saying they were fighting for
democracy in a rare speech from the
White House's Oval Office he stressed
that backing both was vital for US
National Security Biden said the world
was looking to America for leadership
and that the US couldn't afford to
abandon its
allies American leadership is what holds
the world together American alliances
what keep us America safe American
values are what make us a partner that
other nations want to work with to put
all that at risk if we walk away from
Ukraine if we turn our backs on Israel
it's just not worth it that's why
tomorrow I'm going to send to Congress
an urgent budget request to fund
America's national security needs to
support our critical Partners including
Israel and
Ukraine is a smart investment that's
going to pay dividends forer American
Security for
Generations help us keep American troops
out of Harm's Way help us build a world
that is safer more peaceful more
prosperous for our children and
grandchildren earlier I asked DW's
William glue to tell us more about Biden
taking that unusual step of addressing
the American people from the Oval
Office it is unusual I'm trying to
remember a time when the a a US
president gave a major Prime Time
National address about something going
on and we're cutting straight back to
Tel Aviv where German foreign minister
anel neok is about to address the media
she is on a three-nation tour of the
Middle East uh she with stops in Lebanon
Jordan and Israel she's currently in Tel
Aviv this is her second visit to the
region within two weeks an Elena babach
of course uh serving as German foreign
minister here we
go
I talked to my
counterpart and Minister bans today in
Israel here and I assured both of them
that Germany stands firmly at the side
of Israel Israel not only has the right
but also the obligation
to protect its population within the
framework of the international law and
in each
talk also today when notices that the
terror of Hamas the inhumane atrocities
have hurt Israel
severely and they are very
hard to digest this
inhumanity remains being a break in
history
the plight of the families are
devastating and the world needs to know
about them therefore it was very
important to me to talk to family
members to travel to Israel to listen to
their
horrible
experiences and to disseminate them to
the world and this is why yesterday when
I was in Jordan I held a press
conference there and I
reported
about the press conference that took
place here I sat beside a father next to
a spouse who just normally said goodbye
to his wife and his daughters into to
the weekend who traveled to their
grandparents and then he got a
call from
a shelter full of panic in the voices of
their loved ones and ever since he
hadn't heard anything about them but he
had
to watch a video where he saw his
two young children who were not yet even
in primary school they were pulled onto
a truck and he doesn't know where they
are now these and very similar
horrible Deeds show the inhumanity of
the Hamas
terrorists all that shows why this
terrorism needs to be fought because
without fighting Hamas there is no peace
there is no
security not in Israel but also not in
the
region being a close friend of Israel
it's also our
task
to use our influence so that this
country in the light of Terror and
mourning doesn't lose itself because
that's exactly what the terrorists want
to achieve and this Playbook of
terrorism needs to be
counteracted and therefore it's very
important to think Beyond Today
particularly when your heart is burning
the terrorists want the do
dehumanization of the conflict they want
to produce new pictures of atrocity they
don't care about people also not about
the people living in Gaza and this is
what Democratic states like Israel
distinguishes from the terrorists of
Hamas
Israel care about people in Israel and
in Gaza Palestinians and this is what I
heard in Israel we're not going to give
up our
humanity is what I heard time and time
again and this is what distinguishes
democratic States from terrorists like
Hamas and during my talks over the last
week yesterday I was in Jordan before
that I was in Egypt and I held many
telephone
calls talked here in Israel and also in
Germany I underlined time and again even
though it might seem to be squaring the
circle something which seems to be
impossible everybody who believes in
humanity have two ideas in their minds
at the same time two ideas which cannot
be separated from each other on the one
hand we have the underlying evil terror
Terror of heras needs to be fought
against otherwise there will be no peace
there will be no security neither for
Israel no for Palestinians but then
again on the other
hand to call
major suffering amongst the civilian
population in Gaza is not only to create
fertile ground for new terrorism but it
will also do away and jeopardize the
steps of approachment with Arab
neighbors because there is the risk of a
regional configration and this is the
calculus of the terrorist and this
terrorist calculus must not
Prevail the suffering of a Palestinian
mother in Gaza who doesn't know she can
get drinking water for her thirsty
children will not bring back any of the
abducted children back to their Israeli
parents and it
also would make one or any of the
atrocities carried out
byas would nullify them we all have seen
the horrible pictures of the dead people
at the hospital in Gaza
hospitals need to be protected by all
woring parties they must not be attacked
by
anybody blaming various actors on the
basis of social media posts are put
together very quickly and are being
disseminated very quickly they are used
as a tool of propaganda and the evidence
provided by Israel cause very strong
doubt in the theory promulgated by yamas
and this is why yesterday when I was in
Jordan
want against this
reaction to blame one side without clear
evidence for the International Community
it's very important to carry out a
profound and thorough
investigation I talked to
my
interlocutors onite today and I talked
about the humanitarian Supply in Gaza I
talked about protected areas in Gaza
like civilian infrastructure
house Hospital
and schools the situation in Gaza is
disastrous everything is missing lacking
the responsibility for that has to be
born by Hamas with their atrocities last
weekend we have increased our aid from
Germany by 50 million EUR and we can
start providing Aid and supplying Aid
immediately at the crossborder point of
Rafa there are many aid supplies
piling up there and I talk to my
counterparts to do everything possible
in order to open the border crossing for
the flow of humanitarian Aid what's
particularly urgently needed is drinking
water so that Cola and other diseases
cannot spread over the next couple of
days the concern around the 100
hostages families children and abducted
by Hamas is something that we cannot let
go of we're concerned about abducted
hostages German Nationals women and
children amongst them the pain and
suffering of family members is Without
Limits it's also our own pain and I'm
very grateful for the opportunity to
talk very closely to the
Israeli government our
partners in the region and we also work
together with various actors and talk to
various actors in the neighboring
countries and United Nations and
international organizations these
innocent hostages need to be released
immediately these are innocent parents
children
grandparents we all want to prevent that
the entire region plummets into chaos
and this is why yesterday I traveled to
Jordan This Is Why I'm going to continue
traveling to Lebanon and this is why I'm
very clear in my messages in these
locations his baa must not pull Lebanon
into this
conflict like so many others I'd like to
emphasize here I warn Iran I warn she
shite
militias in Iran and in Yemen to join
the band wagon of Terror and to put fuel
to the fire in spite of the Unspeakable
Terror and suffering in spite of this
unspeakable tension concern and
nervousness that you notice across the
entire region what I'm
also perceiving is a small spark of hope
although a very small one young people
old people almost
everybody uh adolescents and children
that I talk to in the Reg that I met in
the region over these days they all have
the same wish it's the wish to live in
peace and
security and safety the wish of children
and young people to go to school simply
free of Terror free of
humanitarian suffering it's the wish for
Humanity you're going to travel to Cairo
to a peace Summit what are your
expectations regarding the peace Summit
in
Cairo I talked about this small very
small spark of hope this meeting takes
place in a
situation where we not only have an very
high level of tension amongst all
parties in the region but also where we
International Partners come
together in order to make our best
contribution in order to prevent
Regional configration
and to this end a meeting of various
Partners can contribute all those
countries and representatives of
governments who meet there over the last
days have talked to each other
bilaterally nonstop they had gathered on
various locations and we now meet in a
larger round in order to ask the
question how to prevent confguration how
to prevent a civilian disaster and
catastrophe this is what we are going to
talk about together although it's very
clear that we have different angles on
the situation in the course of these
days at the same time there an
opportunity to make it very clear that
terrorism is to the benefit of nobody in
this region we all need to have this
shared interest to prevent uh the
conflict from spreading in the region
and I travel as a representatives of the
German government because particularly
Egypt plays an important role when it
comes
to uh preventing a configuration in the
region it's a very important partner
also with a view to
providing uh
Aid to the region you mentioned Iran uh
how is the fundamental willingness of
engaging in talk are they ready to
communicate at
all it's totally clear that this
with without a contribution and support
of Iran wouldn't have been possible to
be carried out at the same time during
these days we have various channels of
talk to Iran in order to bring it across
that no further fuel must be put to the
fire we need to do everything in order
to keep the spreading at Bay and this is
why we using our channels talk to All
actors in order to prevent such a
configration from happening and that was
German foreign minister analena barbach
wrapping up a news conference in Tel
Aviv in her second trip to
the and that was German foreign minister
analina Bach wrapping up a uh her second
well wrapping up a news conference on
her second trip to the region within two
weeks uh with me in the studio is our
chief political analyst Melinda crane
she was following
uh the foreign minister speech along
with me Melinda uh let's talk about what
she had to say it was a a powerful
address I thought she she made she made
an interesting uh division between the
inhumanity of hum hum humas and the
humanity of Israel and she was stressing
the need for Israel not to lose that
Humanity in its response indeed uh and
in that way she's gone a bit further
than in some of her past speeches she
reiterated once again the fact that
Israel has not only a right but also a
duty to protect its citizens and that
Israel must fight must fight Hamas so
that is a message that we certainly have
heard from her before this this very
passionate solidarity with Israel but
then she said it is also important that
In the Heat of the Moment that Israel
does not lose itself does not lose its
own Humanity
and I thought when I heard her words
once again of Joe Biden warning Israel
saying you know after 911 we in the
force of the rage and the heat of that
moment and she also used the term Heat
of the Moment we made some bad decisions
now she didn't go that far but she did
imply uh that Israel risks giving Hamas
exactly what they want if there are many
many images appearing of civilians
suffering in Gaza that that exactly uh
could be one of hamas's aims because
that can drive a wedge between Israel
and the Arab neighbors with which it has
been trying to cultivate better
relations and there too she suggested
indirectly don't give Hamas that don't
let them essentially stall this Raposa
this this uh increasing proximity
between you and your neighbors uh by by
In the Heat of the Moment creating those
kind of images and then she went on to
issue a very clear warning once again to
Iran saying and uh in answer to a
question we do have channels of
communication that we are using and
you'll remember that the Amir of Qatar
was just uh here in Berlin and spoke
with Chancellor Schultz that visit had
been planned before but Schultz said he
had some very clear words to Qatar which
of course is also in close contact with
Iran so there is a very strong message
there to Iran essentially to hisbah and
she said once again she is planning to
go to Lebanon although her own Ministry
has told Germans that uh it's time to
think about leaving Lebanon but she is
planning to go to Lebanon to uh convey
that message in person clearly stay out
don't get into this conflict on the
topic of Iran uh she also said that the
Hamas terrorist attack against uh Israel
on October 7th that killed so many
people and and where so so many were
abducted uh this would not have been
possible without Iran's support she she
said that very clearly we're hearing her
also Echo words that we've heard from
Chancellor Schultz before Chancellor
Schultz had uh tried to impress upon
Israel the need not to act in rage right
to not be blinded by rage I think was
the phrase that Chancellor Schultz used
in in addressing that we also heard that
same warning from chancell Schultz when
he was visiting the region also in Tel
Aviv just a couple of days ago warning
Iran warning Hezbollah directly not to
get involved in this another point that
she was trying to make uh during her her
news conference just there now was
regarding the the plight of the refugees
of drawing uh not the refugees but the
hostages rather the plight of the
hostages that have been taken more than
200 hostages uh elderly uh women and
children among them some children uh not
even in Pre not even in primary school
yet uh there's great concern surrounding
that she was obviously moved by the
stories of the relatives that she had
met indeed she has been telling those
stories that pretty much every stop on
these diplomatic trips that she's been
taking trying I think to awaken um the
empathy and Humanity of her
interlocutors by individualizing the
suffering and so she once again
mentioned meeting a father a husband of
families that had been taken hostage the
the father having seen his two small
girls loaded onto a truck and she has
told similar stories uh in Israel about
her encounters with Palestinians in
Jordan uh just before traveling on to
Israel she met with a Palestinian uh
with Palestinian young people and has
talked about that so indeed trying in a
way to put faces onto the suffering of
uh but she has made it very very clear
as you say that Israel nonetheless does
have a right to take action and this is
a challenge uh for German leaders to try
to convey what she said very eloquently
that we must all hold two ideas in our
minds at the same time that there is
this need to protect this need to fight
Terror and at the same time to preserve
our own Collective humanity and that
it's hard to hold that kind of
ambivalence in a time of conflict and
fear absolutely uh another important
theme in her in her talk just there was
regard was regarding the humanitarian
situation the suffering in Gaza right
now that the people there are enduring
she Drew attention to uh some of the the
deprivations that the people in Gaza are
suffering right now and efforts to try
to assure that those people are not
going to be left in that situation uh
she made it very clear that the
suffering of the civilians in Gaza is
not going to bring any of the hostages
home uh she tried to make a very very
clear point about that as well but
getting humanitarian Aid into Gaza to
help the civilians under these
conditions is proving extremely
difficult uh can Germany or anyone else
uh make that happen they're doing what
they what they can clearly and it's
interesting to note that Germany does
have some contacts in the region that at
least for the moment are not open to the
US Joe Biden had planned to meet with
the leaders of Jordan and Egypt when he
went to Israel this week and they canel
those meetings after the bombing at the
hospital precipitously probably not
justified now that we are pretty sure
this was a rocket that was fired by
Islamic Jihad not by Israel but
nonetheless those meetings were canceled
whereas the chancellor does have an open
line of communication with the Egyptian
leadership and she will be traveling on
tomorrow to attend this peace Summit
that has been called by Egypt with other
uh Arab leaders to clearly talk about
how they can try to open up these
humanitarian corridors that are so badly
needed at the same time as we know Egypt
is very concerned about opening up a
corridor that could be used by
Palestinians to leave Gaza and enter
Egypt both because of concerns about
massive migration but also because of
concerns about ethnic cleansing that
would essentially see Palestinians uh no
longer living in Gaza so again an
enormous dilemma there for all parties
trying to get this Crossing open trying
to get these corridors open with the
clock ticking as she said there is
massive danger to those civilians
trapped there in the south of Gaza
without water food medicine and power
supplies indeed U Melinda thank you very
much our our chief political analyst
Melinda crane with us in the studio
um that that was anal Bach of